翻译构建流程简介与常见问题指南 (#1892)
cocos-creator/creator-docs: en/editor/publish/build-guide.md

### Initialization of Build options

> This step is mainly to initialize the **primal options** passed to the build during the build to **build internal options**, complete the format conversion of some of the build options, initialize project configuration, initialize the resource data of the build resource database, and check the latest resource information and classify it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step is mainly for initializing the **primal options** passed to the build during the build to **build internal options**, completing the format conversion of some of the build options, initialize project configuration, initialize the resource data of the build resource database, and check the latest resource information and classify it.
```

### Build data organization

When building, the editor will first sort out the current scenes involved in the build and resources in all [Bundles](../../asset/bundle.md) folders and then search for their dependent resources through engine deserialization, and recursively find a list of all the resources that need to be packaged. After the resource list is summarized, the resources will be classified according to the `Bundle` configuration, and script compiling tasks, image compression tasks, and json grouping information will be collected.

> **Notes**:
>
> 1. The engine will load all user scripts before deserialization. Whether the script is successfully loaded will directly affect the deserialization. If the script is not correctly written, it will cause the build to fail. <br>
> 2. If a dependency resource is found missing during the resource sorting process, an error will be reported but the build will normally continue. Although the build is allowed to continue successfully, it does not mean that the problem does not need to be solved. If the missing resources are not solved, it is difficult to guarantee that the built game package has no problems.

> ### Writing the built resources to the file system

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Writing the built assets to the file system
```

> The built resources will be packaged into `assets/[Bundle name]` under the corresponding platform release package directory according to the configuration of the [Asset Bundle](../../asset/bundle.md#configuration) after the build is completed. The directory structure is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The built assets will be packaged into `assets/[Bundle name]` under the corresponding platform release package directory according to the configuration of the [Asset Bundle](../../asset/bundle.md#configuration) after the build is completed. The directory structure is as follows:
```

    - **Plug-in scripts**: directly copy the source files according to the original directory structure to the `src` directory under the release package directory generated after the build, the plug-in script does not support any script form that needs to be compiled, such as `TypeScript` or `JavaScript (ES6)`. The resource information of the plug-in script will be written into the jsList array in `settings`.

    - **Non-plugin scripts**: packaged into `project.js` and placed in the corresponding `src` directory. Checking the `sourceMap` option will generate the corresponding `.map` file, and determine whether the script is compressed according to the `debug` option.

- **Auto Atlas Processing**: queries the Auto Atlas resource list within the project, packaging the SpriteFrame small images under the atlas into a large image, generating serialized files, etc. according to the configuration of the Auto Atlas resource. This step will also modify the `json` grouping information, asset resource grouping information, and add texture compression tasks. 

> - **Texture Compression**: according to the organized image compression task, the image resources are compressed and written into the build folder. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Texture Compression**: according to the organized image compression task, the image assets are compressed and written into the build folder. 
```

                      |--1dc4a547f9...63a43bb8965.watch-files.json
                      |--1dc4a547f9...63a43bb8965 (engine folder)
                      |--1dc4a547f9...63a43bb8965.meta (folder)
                  ...
      ```

      As long as any relevant engine build parameters are changed, the engine will be recompiled. Parameters that specifically affect the use of the build engine cache are:

        - debug: whether to open the debug mode
        - includeModules: engine module settings
        - sourceMaps: whether to enable sourceMaps
        - platform: build platform
        - Engine modification time
        - Whether to check the **Separate Engine** in the **Build** panel (only WeChat Mini Game)
        - Use engine path, engine version number

- **JSON build**: When serializing `JSON`, it will be merged and written into the file system (in the folder `assets/xxxBundle/import`) according to the `JSON` grouping and the `Bundle` to which it belongs. **If it is in release mode, it will also compress the UUID in the serialized JSON**.

- **Common Asset Copy**: Some raw assets will be directly copied from the `library` to the built folder `assets/xxxBundle/native`.

> - **md5 processing**: Add the `.md5` suffix to all the resources, project scripts and engine files in the `assets` folder, and organize the data to be recorded in the `settings.json`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **md5 processing**: Add the `.md5` suffix to all the assets, project scripts and engine files in the `assets` folder, and organize the data to be recorded in the `settings.json`.
```

    // Store the URL and type of the resource loaded under 'resources'
    // Example: "bba00d3a-2f17-4511-b47c-0d584b21b763@6c48a": ["test/right/texture", "cc.Texture2D", "bba0...@6c48a"]
    // "bba0...@6c48a": ["test/right/texture", 1, 1]
    packs: Record<string, IUuid[] | number[]>; // json group information.
    versions: { 
        import: Array<string | number>;
        native: Array<string | number>;
     }; // Only available after md5Cache is checked, the array part is stored in the format of [uuid_1, md5_1, uuid_2, md5_2, ...], where uuid_1 is a simple number indicating that the storage is the uuid index in the uuids array.
    uuids: string[]; // uuid array, only in release mode.
    types?: string[]; // Resource type array, only in release mode.
    encrypted?: boolean; // Marks whether the script in the Bundle is encrypted, active on the native platform.
    isZip?: boolean; // Is it in ZIP mode.
    zipVersion?: string; // MD5 Hash value of ZIP package.
}
```

The structure here only lists the structure of `settings.json` and `config.json` in a general sense. In fact, these parameters will vary after different platform builds.

### Compressing config.json

> Before generating `config.json`, the `UUID` information in the file will be compressed according to whether it is in release mode or not, understanding this rule will be helpful to find the location of the file after the resource is built.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before generating the `config.json` file, the `UUID` information in the file will be compressed according to whether it is in release mode or not, understanding this rule will be helpful to find the location of the file after the resource is built.
```

The `UUIDs` used in the `Bundle` will be sorted during the build, and those that appear **twice or more** will be stored in the `uuids` array, and the location of the previously used `UUID` will be replaced with the index.

All `types` that appear **twice and more** are also stored in the `types` array, and the previously used position is replaced with the index.

> #### Build resources

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Build assets
```

> This step generates project resource files other than scripts, as scripts are compiled and processed separately as special files. The resources are re-serialized after deserialization is performed during the packaging process to reduce the package size after packaging. Multiple serialized JSONs are combined into a single file based on the JSON grouping information collated from the previous data, e.g. the serialized files of the `texture` resource are all packaged into a single `json` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step generates project resource files other than scripts, since scripts are compiled and processed separately as special files. The resources are re-serialized after deserialization is performed during the packaging process to reduce the package size after packaging. Multiple serialized JSONs are combined into a single file based on the JSON grouping information collated from the previous data, e.g. the serialized files of the `texture` resource are all packaged into a single JSON file.
```

## Building of each platform

> Build provides hook functions that build the lifecycle, which is convenient for developers to participate in the building during different processing periods of the building and affect the building result. At the same time, the build also provides a way for developers to directly add some custom build options. The corresponding new parameters can be displayed directly in the **Build** panel through simple configuration. For details, please refer to the [Extending Build Process](custom-build-plugin.md) documentation. The build options injected by the build plugin will be stored in `options.packages[pkgName]`, the current way of writing option parameters built through the command line also needs to follow this rule. The rules for the corresponding parameters can be referenced by clicking **Export Build Config** at the top right of the **Build** panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Build process provides hook functions that build the lifecycle, which is convenient for developers to participate in the building during different processing periods of the building and affect the building result. At the same time, the build also provides a way for developers to directly add some custom build options. The corresponding new parameters can be displayed directly in the **Build** panel through simple configuration. For details, please refer to the [Extending Build Process](custom-build-plugin.md) documentation. The build options injected by the build plugin will be stored in `options.packages[pkgName]`, the current way of writing option parameters built through the command line also needs to follow this rule. The rules for the corresponding parameters can be referenced by clicking **Export Build Config** at the top right of the **Build** panel.
```

The **build** of the editor is similar to the function of an **export game package for the corresponding platform**, which is mainly to complete the interface of the engine to each platform and the compatibility of the basic format of the game package, which does not mean that all the work is completed. Each platform usually has its own compilation process, such as the compilation and upload function of the developer tools that come with the WeChat Mini Game platform, and the compilation, running and debugging functions of the relevant IDE for each native platform. If the developer needs to customize the packaging process for a specific platform, the editor needs to support the process of splitting in order to better access.

## FAQ Guide

The entire build process is in a single worker, to view the complete log information of the build process or view the complete call stack when an error occurs, click on the main menu, then **Developer -> Open Build DevTools**. In fact, a lot of log information will be output when building, but in order not to interfere with users, by default only errors, warnings and some important log messages are printed to the editor's **Console** panel.

> > **Note**: before building **please make sure that the scene participating in the building can be previewed normally**. Loss of resources in some scenes or other script problems can be exposed during the preview stage. Building under the condition that the preview is normal can save time and troubleshoot better.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **Note**: before building **please make sure that the scene participating in the building can be previewed normally**. Loss of assets in some scenes or other script problems can be exposed during the preview stage. Building under the condition that the preview is normal can save time and troubleshoot better.
```

2. **There is a problem importing the loaded resource, and the data cannot be generated normally to the library**

    - **Reason**: All the original data is obtained by reading the resource files in the `library` during the build. If the import fails, the correct corresponding resource information will not be obtained.

    - **Solution**: Find the corresponding resource through **Assets** panel, right-click, and select **Reimport Asset** in the menu.

3. **Resource Loss**

    - **Reason**: As mentioned in the previous construction process, **resource construction will go through the reverse sequence to find dependent resources**, and the most frequent problem is that the dependent resources are accidentally during the project iteration process delete and cause resource loss. The loss of these resources may not usually be noticed, but once the build is performed, it will be exposed.

    - **Solution**: Use the code editor to find out which resources the `UUID` is referenced, and modify the corresponding resources.

### Script resource loading error

> As mentioned in the previous section of **Building Data Sorting**, the script environment needs to be configured when building. If the error message is related to the script, please refer to the error content to modify the script. If you don't know which script is reporting the error, find the `UUID` of the corresponding script in the error message call stack, and then find the location in **Assets** panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As mentioned in the previous section of **Building Data Sorting**, the script environment needs to be configured when building. If the error message is related to the script, please refer to the error content to modify the script. If it is unknown which script is reporting the error, find the `UUID` of the corresponding script in the error message call stack, and then find the location in the **Assets** panel.
```

<!-- ### How to find the position of the resource serialized json in the package body after construction

After json is packaged, it will be stored in the `assets/XXXBundle/import` folder. If it is a common resource, just use UUID to search in the folder. -->

### Engine compilation failed

If the engine fails to compile, please check if the installation package is complete, if the modified built-in engine code is correct, and if you are using a custom engine, if the path is correct, etc.

### Other errors

> If you encounter errors that you cannot resolve on your own, please send feedback to [Cocos Forum](https://discuss.cocos2d-x.org/c/creator/33) with the Creator version, build options configuration, build log file from the build task, and a demo of the reproducible issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If errors are encountered that cannot be resolved, please send feedback to the [Cocos Forum](https://discuss.cocos2d-x.org/c/creator/33) with the Creator version, build options configuration, build log file from the build task, and a demo that reproduces the issue.
```
